---
hide:
    - toc
description: Power to make regulations
---

## Power to make regulations

1. The Council may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by notification, make regulations consistent with this Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the provisions of this Act.
2. In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may make provision for—
    1. qualification, experience and accreditation for mediators of foreign nationality under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 8;
    2. manner of conducting mediation proceeding under sub-section (1) of section15;
    3. standards for professional and ethical conduct of mediators under sub-section (3) of section 15;
    4. manner of registration of mediated settlement agreement under sub-section (1) of section 20;
    5. fees for registration of mediated settlement agreement under the proviso to sub-section (2) of section 20;
    6. cost of mediation under sub-section (1) of section 25;
    7. manner of process of conducting online mediation under sub-section (2) of section 30;
    8. the terms and conditions of experts and committees of experts under section 36;
    9. qualifications, appointment and other terms and conditions of service of the Chief Executive Officer under sub-section (2) of section 37;
    10. the number of officers and employees of the Secretariat of the Council under sub-section (3) of section 37;
    11. the qualification, appointment and other terms and conditions of the employees and other officers of the Council under sub-section (4) of section 37;
    12. conditions for registration of mediators and renewal, withdrawal, suspension or cancellations of such registrations under clause (e) of section 38;
    13. criteria for recognition of mediation institutes and mediation service providers under clause (j) of section 38;
    14. manner of maintenance of electronic depository of mediated settlement agreement under clause (n) of section 38;
    15. manner for recognition of mediation service provider under sub-section (2) of section 40;
    16. such other functions of mediation service provider under clause (f) of section 41;
    17. duties and functions to be performed by mediation institutes under section 42; and
    18. any other matter in respect of which provision is necessary for the performance of functions of the Council under this Act.
